## Reflection Statement 

In our class, themes that emerged include the impact of technology and digital systems on the process of recording, archiving, and presenting information, the importance of considering the human elements of data and people at the center of sources, and the ways that media can be used within larger frameworks of humanities work. Throughout the class, we explored several examples of the intersection of digital structures on humanities-centered collections and topics. One such example that stood out to me was K.J. Rawson and Nikki Tantum’s interview and Q+A on the Digital Transgender Archive, in which they discussed how the archiving process allows for increased discoverability for media, but how they had to make sensitive decisions around accessibility and source labeling. Also relating to access, Kim Christen’s lecture “Press Pause: Slowing Down Digital Humanities Practices” addressed the important topic of limiting source access to properly respect indigenous cultural traditions. In both cases, the issues of digital systems shaping both the curation process for scholars and public interaction with sources were crucial.  In workshops at Iffy Books and in Penn’s Research, Data, and Digital Scholarship Exchange, I learned more about the programs Meshtastic and Geoda, respectively. Meshtastic is a system of shorter-distance, off-the-grid radio communication, while Geoda is a spatial mapping software that allows for the creation of maps and graphs. The two workshops were very different, yet both related to the concept of finding informational systems that properly serve the purpose of a core audience. Also, the structure of both systems fundamentally shape user experience, whether related to creating a map or delivering a short-range message. 

Although I think it has been a theme throughout the couse, a connecting thread that I think especially came into focus in the second half of the semester was the potential of multimedia to communicate ideas and showcase source material. Through making my multimedia essay on Eastern State Penitentiary and the Eastern Echo, I was able to experiment with different ways of arranging primary sources and my analysis to emphasize the complex humanity of my blog post’s subject. Through my group project in the Education Commons, I had discussions with my group about how to make an object that also communicates the importance of baseball in the lives of those incarcerated at Eastern State. In both projects, whether introducing articles on 1913 baseball games or presenting family census records, my analysis focused on the way primary sources showed and did not show important aspects of the human lives they detailed. 

I think that my idea of digital humanities as at the intersection of digital systems and ways of conveying information with humanities topics is relatively accurate, but that I didn’t have a clear idea of the variety of tools, formats, and nuances in the field. For example, while I have experience digitizing manuscript sources, through our class visit to SCETI I learned more about the technology involved in several new forms of digitization. Also, in listening to Kim Christen’s description of the Mukurtu collection management software, I learned more about the complexities in and possibilities of source curation. 

Through the projects in this class, I was also able to learn more about the Eastern State Penitentiary and my connection to the prison, plus to explore the technologies in the Education Commons. I have always been interested in ESP, and this project gaave me the opportunity to spend more time exploring my family connection there and the prison itself. All of the newspaper, Eastern Echo, and census records that I found were new to me in the project process, and it was interesting to go more in-depth into the topics of my blog post. I also enjoyed the process of constructing a multimedia essay with sources, images, and analysis, which mirrored projects I later completed in the Storymaps program for other classes. In the Education Commons, I discovered more about the kind of machines and assistance available for students, plus was able to experience creating a worthwhile project with my group. Also, the class reading and lecture content around the nuances of archives, source curation, and public access were especially interesting to me, as they intersect with source-centered volunteering work I’ve been doing with the Historical Society of Pennsylvania for the last two years.  

I think that my work process in completing the assignments for this class went smoothly, and I was glad to be able to create two projects that were worthwhile to me, plus to attend informative workshops. I think that a particular strength of my multimedia essay was the depth of my research and the resulting analysis. My group for the Education Commons project worked effectively together, and each person brought a collaborative spirit. The only things that I would change if given the opportunity would be small logistical aspects of my projects, like the way that my multimedia essay did not flow into the repository formatting in a way that retained my image centering, or ideally producing a 3D field model that wasn't black. However, overall I feel that I was able to reach project expectations, and I’m satisfied with the outcome of my work. 


My blog post relating to the Eastern Echo and Eastern State Penitentiary can be found here: https://printinginprisons.org/blog/galas/ 

My reflection on the workshop I attended in Philadelphia can be found here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EGbDzuQ6m4V1So8u5ncfAgofl7jNYRlv3YgMXYIsEos/edit?usp=sharing and my reflection on a Penn workshop is here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tPghKmA6EiMN2PS3wTV3-HF8cHOCEc-UX7Umfw7ktjU/edit?usp=sharing 

Here is the slides presentation that I worked on with my group, which includes images of our process and final product: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17Cz-xajMRvpZH50ABpU-6DRXRnzGDj27lHMO9cTO_kY/edit?usp=sharing 

Here is my reflection on the project my group completed in the Education Commons: https://docs.google.com/document/d/195mIIOzhx8_1v09CDEVvihg2pJig7u6MisWZ7nH2k1U/edit?usp=sharing


## Looking Forward
After completing Introuduction to Digital Humanities, I plan to further my learning by continuing to explore workshops and learning opportunities around digital humanities at Penn, taking another class towards the Digital Humanities minor in the spring, and look into using Github or a similar platform to house online resources I’ve already made. I found the workshop I attended at the Research, Data, and Digital Scholarship exchange to be both interesting and helpful for projects in my other classes, so I will be looking out for more workshops and resources from that space in the future. In two history classes this semester outside of Intro to Digital Humanities, I enjoyed the opportunity to explore spatial and multimedia programs including Storymaps and SocialExplorer, so I will also look for classes that incorporate varying media in class assignments. I also plan on taking Data Science for the Humanities in the spring to further try out the Digital Humanities minor. I look forward to learning more about the intersection of digital platforms, archiving, media, and information sharing with humanities fields. Finally, now that I know more about Github and concepts like markdown and repositories, I want to look into potentially building a basic site. As of right now, I have a collection of projects geared towards high school history research and project-building for National History Day on a Wix site, but it could be worthwhile to try and build my own independent website. 
